---
layout: post
category: il y a là cendre
title: 10月结束
date: 2021-10-31 22:06:09
tags: []
---

也不知道应该用什么样的心情来表述。

还需要切换一下繁体字什么的么。意图何在。其实最初也只是为了好看一点？

说认真考虑一下这个写写英文了，然后也把blog的字体换了中文的，这样却是好么。

也不知道为什么了。

不够貌似其实可以试试看看，所谓的英文的字体会是什么样子的？


	If any object can be found to which this term [the spirit of capitalism] can be applied with any understandable meaning, it can only be an historical individual, i.e., a complex of elements associated in historical reality which we unite into a conceptual whole from the standpoint of their cultural significance. Such an historical concept, however, since it refers in its content to a phenomenon significant for its unique individuality, cannot be defined according to the formula gens proximum, differentia specifica, but it must be gradually put together out of the individual parts which are taken from historical reality to make it up. Thus the final and definitive concept cannot stand at the beginning, but must come at the end.
	Max Weber, The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism


> Well this is really a question of terminology. I need hardly point out that no historian of ancien regime societies, a fortiori of ancient civilizations, would ever, when using the word capitalism, have in mind the definition Alexander Gerschenron calmly gives us: ‘Capitalism, that is the modern industrial system’. I have...indicated that capitalism in the past (as distinct from capitalism today) only occupied a narrow platform of economic life. How could one possibly take it to mean a ‘system’ extending over the whole of society? It was nevertheless a world apart, different from and indeed foreign to the social and economic context surrounding it. And it is in relation to this context that it is defined as ‘capitalism’, not merely in relation to capitalist forms which were to emerge later in time. In fact capitalism was what it was in relation to a non-capitalism of immense proportions. And to refuse to admit this dichotomy within the economy of the past, on the pretext that the ‘time’ of capitalism dates only from the nineteenth century, means abandoning the effort to understand the significance—crucial to the analysis of the economy-of what might be termed the former topography of capitalism. If there were certain areas where it elected residence—by no means inadvertently—that is because these were the only areas which favoured the reproduction of capital.---Fernand Braudel, The Wheels of Commerce


In Weber’s oeuvre there are a number of works devoted solely or in significant part to the study of antiquity. They are the following:
1. Die römische Agrargeschichte in ihrer Bedeutung für das Staatsund Privatrecht (1891);
2. The essay ‘The social causes of the decay of ancient civilization’ (1896);
3. The Agrarian Sociology of Ancient Civilizations (first edition 1897 and second edition
1909);
4. The essay ‘The city’, written between 1911 and 1913, but first published
(posthumously) in the Archiv für Sozialwissenschaft und Sozialpolitik, no. 48 in 1921.
This is now included in Economy and Society as Chapter XVI;
5. General Economic History (1919–29), which is not a text actually written by Weber,
but the written version of a series of public lectures given by him under the title ‘Outlines of Universal Social and Economic History’. The contents of the lectures were reconstructed from Weber’s own brief notes and those of students who attended the lectures and published (posthumously) in 1923;
6. Finally, in addition to these works, we note that Weber’s magnum opus Economy and Society and Weber’s numerous writings on religion contain a wealth of references to various aspects of antiquity.

-------





